You will be going home
or to a new assignment.
We want you to know that you will be missed.
It was good for the Bethel family
to have you with us.
It was a blessing from Jehovah.
Like a pregnant woman,
your bellies are swelled to the limit.
All the signs tell you
that a baby is about to be born.
You’re rushed to see the doctor.
He examines you.
And you ask, “When?”
He says, “Any day now.”
Your minds and hearts are about to burst
with spiritual things to deliver to others.
Yes, this is a day for delivering.
Your spirituality is contagious.
When you walk into a room,
you bring sunshine with you.
Notice what Jesus said
to some of his followers
—Matthew 5:14-16:
“You are the light of the world.
“A city cannot be hid
“when located on a mountain.
“People light a lamp and set it,
“not under a basket,
“but on the lampstand,
“and it shines on all those in the house.
“Likewise, let your light shine before men,
“so that they may see your fine works
“and give glory to your Father
who is in the heavens.”
First of all,
your spiritual brothers and sisters
are in the house with you.
Shine on them, but don’t limit it to them.
We want others to see the light.
For the past five months,
you have been studying
the personality of Jehovah
and talking to him by means of prayer.
It’s true
that humans cannot see
the literal Person, Jehovah.
For Jehovah God to set down
a description of himself in spirit terms
would be like trying to explain colors
to a person born blind.
You have been asking for him
to help you in your studies,
and he has helped you.
Without his help,
you would not be graduating.
Now you’re ready as never before
to let your light shine
on your fleshly family members,
your Bible students,
and your spiritual brothers and sisters.
But don’t make it so bright and intense
that you put out the eyes
of those around you.
Turn the wick down in your lamp.
There is no need to say every time:
“We were taught this in Gilead.”
“We were taught this
in one of our Gilead classes.”
“A member of the Governing Body
called this to our attention
in a lecture he gave.”
You knew some things
before you came to Gilead.
You knew that God’s name is Jehovah
and that it is unique,
meaning the only one of its kind.
My name is Sam,
Samuel, or Sammy.
It is not unique.
There are many others with the same name.
I was named after my father’s brother
—Uncle Sam.
Did you get that, Uncle Sam?
I did not name myself.
A baby doesn’t say, after eight months
in his mother’s womb,
“Mommy, when I get out,
call me Sammy.”
God Almighty chose his name, Jehovah.
He named himself.
That is different; that is unique.
You Gilead students,
soon to be a Gilead graduates,
know Jehovah but not completely,
not the whole Person, just the fringe.
Compare what you see to an ornamental edging
of hanging threads of a garment.
You don’t see the whole garment.
Romans 11:33-36 says:
“O the depth
“of God’s riches and wisdom and knowledge!
“How unsearchable his judgments are
“and beyond tracing out his ways are!
“For ‘who has come to know Jehovah’s mind,
“or who has become his adviser?’
“Or, ‘who has first given to him,
“so that it must be repaid to him?’
“Because from him and by him and for him
“are all things.
“To him be the glory forever.
Amen.”
Job 36:26
tells us: “Yes, God
“is greater than we can know;
“the number of his years
is beyond comprehension.”
No matter how much knowledge
we have accumulated in our brain,
it amounts to a grain of sand on a seashore
when we live forever.
“Forever”?
That is an interesting word.
It is defined as “never-ending,
“incessantly,
ceaseless.”
That’s enough to blow
an imperfect man’s mind away
but not Jehovah’s mind.
And he promises obedient humans
everlasting, never-ending, life.
I’m going to read a scripture to you
without revealing
where it is found in the Bible.
It is one of the first
that captured my attention
back in 1956.
Now, that was before any of you were born.
“With that I heard a loud voice
“from the throne say: ‘Look!
“‘The tent of God is with mankind,
“‘and he will reside with them,
“‘and they will be his people.
“‘And God himself with be with them.
“‘And he will wipe out every tear
from their eyes,
“‘and death will be no more,
“‘neither will mourning nor outcry
“‘nor pain be anymore.
The former things have passed away.’”
Where is it in the Bible?
Revelation 21:3, 4.
I knew you would know that one.
We are limited
to how much knowledge our brains
can understand and sort out correctly.
Yes, one day
we will know much more than we know today.
But we will not know it all.
That’s good.
You will never be a know-it-all.
Now is the time to let your light shine.
Our work at the present
is to inform people
that the Kingdom of God,
a heavenly government,
is the only remedy
to the woes of mankind, which are causing
so much suffering and death.
Inform people of the Kingdom,
but don’t blind them with your bright light
of knowledge learned at Gilead.
A little light will be enough
for them to see where to go.
When I was in the army in Germany years ago,
I drove a truck with five men inside
and an M101 howitzer artillery gun
attached to the rear of the truck.
We traveled during a pitch-dark night
with no lights used.
We could only see the tail light
of the vehicle in front.
That was enough light to follow.
Keep in mind,
there may not be enough time left
for your students
and new brothers and sisters
to learn all that you know.
Feed them not a heavy meal
of steak and baked potatoes
but an appetizer
to stimulate the juices in the mouth.
Any day now
nations will cause the peoples
who are looking to them for guidance to think
they have finally established peace.
The need for peace is already
being talked about by national leaders.
We are not fooled by this sham cry
of “Peace and security!”
First Thessalonians 5:3 says:
“Whenever it is that they are saying,
“‘Peace and security!’
“then sudden destruction
“is to be instantly on them,
“just like birth pains
“on a pregnant woman,
and they will by no means escape.”
Jehovah will have
the political powers of this world
turn against Babylon the Great
(that’s false religion).
After they see the handwriting
on the wall for her
and destroy her
(“sudden destruction” instantly
—it won’t take long),
her supporters will cry out,
weeping and mourning, and say,
“Too bad, too bad!”
But we will be thinking,
‘I’m glad; I’m glad!’
Revelation 18:20 says:
“Be glad over her, O heaven,
“also you holy ones
“and apostles and prophets,
“because God has pronounced his judgment
on her in your behalf!”
Are you ready?
Are you ready
to “be glad over her” destruction?
I think you are.
But I can’t make that determination.
We will know if we were ready
as Jehovah protects us
when the nations turn their guns on us.
Now is the time
for us to continue strengthening
our faith and trust
in Jehovah’s love for us.
Study, meditate,
associate, and preach the Kingdom.
Young David, when facing Goliath,
had five smooth stones in his pouch,
the pouch of his shepherd’s bag.
He only used one,
but he was prepared in case he needed more.
When we read the Bible and meditate on it,
our figurative heart absorbs God’s Word.
Like putting symbolic stones
in our figurative heart,
this gives us the inner strength we need
to preach the Kingdom message now
and to proclaim
the hard-hitting judgment message
that we may deliver in the near future.
The day for salvation will be closed
any day now.
When Noah had gathered all the creatures
that Jehovah had designated,
along with all necessary food
needed for all in the ark,
they went into the ark.
Note, it was Jehovah who closed the door,
not Noah.
Genesis 7:16 says:
“So they went in, male and female
“of every sort of flesh,
“just as God had commanded him.
“After that Jehovah
shut the door behind him.”
We don’t take it upon ourselves
to close the door to salvation.
Jehovah shuts the door,
and we can’t push it open
to let Mom or anyone else in.
You Gileadites
are professional preachers and teachers.
You have received training
that not many of your brothers and sisters
will have the privilege to receive
on this side of Armageddon.
Yes, without a doubt, you are wiser now
than you used to be
but not as wise as Jesus was
when he said: “What I teach is not mine,
but belongs to him who sent me.”—John 7:16.
We believe Jehovah sent you to Gilead.
Keep foremost in mind
that what you teach belongs to Jehovah,
and conduct yourselves
in a manner that displays that.
Let your light shine, not too brightly,
but just a flicker,
as needed before nightfall
—any day now.